{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Documentation: \
\
\
Ants alert: Ants respond to a finger.\
\
\
Antspred: Ants scurry about. When confronted with a predator, escape half the time, die half the time. --Obsolete.\
\
\
Antssim: The big cheese. Ants gather food, inspect the nest, reproduce and fight a giant worm. Added more competition.\
	-Hill: spawns 3 ants. Grows as food is supplied. Shrinks when an ant is made. Tries to maintain a certain ant#:Size ratio. Saves up food for deaths.\
	-Carrots: Seeds. \
	-Orange worm: Predator. Moves in a semirandom zigzag at steep angles, will battle ants on contact. May win, lose or draw.\
	-Bunny rabbit(Food carrier.): Ant that has contacted a carrot. Carries the carrot back to the nest. If any carrots are found on the way back, it marks then with a spherical pheromone. Upon return, turns into light or dark blue ant. On contact with predator, flees, drops "Defense" pheromone, drops food, transforms into "Ninja Turtle." On contact with Light Blue ant, light blue ant carries food back the rest of the way, transforming bunny rabbit into light blue ant.\
	-Light blue ant: (General forager). Turns into bunny rabbit on contact with food. Flees predators and drops defense pheromone, before transforming into ninja turtle. \
	-Dark blue ants (perform a food search dance). Created when an ant returns to the hill 60% of the time. Will attempt to disperse to minimize overlap. Also created when ant encounters the spherical pheromone. Will help bunny rabbit carry food back.\
	-Ninja Turtle: (Defender) Paces randomly. Neutralizes defense pheromone. Has a 60% chance of killing a predator on contact. Will carry food back if found.\
\
UPDATE: Now simulates grass denuding.\
\
\
patrol-forage: Simulates patrolling and foraging behavior over time.}