{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f2\ftech\fcharset0 Wingdings-Regular;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue102;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}}
{\info
{\keywords cursorLocation=7119, fitsPagesWidth=1}}\margl1008\margr1008\margt1008\vieww13740\viewh7540\viewkind1\viewscale105
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\qc

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Breakdown of Topics for Study\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \
Katie: Role Changing. Time and Environmental parameters. \
Patrick: Job Stimulation. Initial task allocation proportion.  \
David: Movement of Ants / How foraging trails are set. Quantitative or comparison data. \
Justin: Interaction Threshold. Nest maintenance recruitment.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1

\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Log (what we\'92ve found so far):\
Katie:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1

\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Patrick:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \'93Forager activation and food availability in Harverster Ants\'94 -- Gordon\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 \'93Forager departure rates were not affected by the return of unsuccessful foragers\'94 \'96Abstract, more in computer model analysis later in paper.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 The ant we\'92re studying \'93forages for dispersed and partially buried seeds, which are distributed mostly at random by wind and flooding\'94 \'96 p. 816, top left.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 \'93Once a forager leaves the nest, it travels in a stream of foragers (a \'91foraging trail\'92) and then stops to search the ground for food. As soon as it has picked up a seed or other bit of food, it goes directly back to the foraging trail and returns to the nest.\'94 P. 816, left middle\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 \'93The streams of foragers can be very broad, spanning more than a metre, and often occupy a fanshaped region of many square metres\'94 p. 816, middle left\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\ls3\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 \'93In response to experimental baits, patrollers (but not foragers; \cf2 Gordon 1984\cf0 ) clearly lay a pheromone trail and recruit foragers to an abundant food source (e.g. \cf2 Gordon 1991\cf0 ); however, such behavior is not normally observed except on rare occasions when the ants manage to surround an insect not claimed by a competing ant species. Throughout a foraging season, a colony uses the same habitual set of foraging directions, sometimes cleared of vegetation (\cf2 Gordon 1991\cf0 ).\'94 P. 816, bottom left\
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\ls4\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 \'93Most foragers do not return to the nest until they have found food; about 90% of returning foragers are successful\'94 p. 816, right\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 \'93In another experiment, all returning foragers were removed. After about an hour, foraging stopped completely\'94 p. 816, right\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\ls6\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 \'93Foragers, like patrollers, have task-specific cuticular hydrocarbon profiles (\cf2 Wagner et al. 2001\cf0 ), and it is likely that contact with hydrocarbons of returning foragers stimulates inactive foragers to leave the nest.\'94 P. 816, bottom right\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\ls7\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \
\
 \'93Behavioral flexibility and the foraging ecology of seed-eating Ants\'94  -- Gordon\
*** David  check out this article ***\
***Actually\'85 everyone, check out this article!!!***\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\ls8\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 \'93Each day that a colony foragers, it chooses few routes out of a larger set of available ones. This decision is made each day by the patrollers, a distinct group of workers, before the foragers emerge from the nest.\'94 \'96Abstract, more on pp.401-401\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f1 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 Foraging trails extend 10-40 m from the nest. P.381, top.\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f1 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 Info on colony longevity  useful for future work. P. 381, bottom.\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f1 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 Number of foragers is 0 \'96 200 on any given day (peak foraging time is 8:00-9:00 AM, and many colonies have zero foragers at this time. Foraging intensity is highly variant).  \'96 P. 386, top of page.\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f1 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 Amazing graph of patroller numbers and times at which they\'92re active \'96 p.390\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f1 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 Good chart of total numbers over the course of a day. Need clarifying info from Gordon to get temporal data on these numbers and see if they\'92re unique or include repeat counts. P. 389\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f1 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 Great decription of how patrollers patrol. Bottom-middle - p. 388\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f1 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 Precise data on forager trail fidelity. Table on p. 394\
\ls8\ilvl0
\f1 \uc0\u957 
\f2 	
\f0 \'93most returning foragers are successful\'94 \'96 p. 402, middle.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li435\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1

\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 David:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \ulnone Movement of Ants, How Foraging Trails Are Set\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl360\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 	Behavioral Flexibility and the Foraging Ecology of Seed-Eating Ants\

\b0 	Ants come back to nest via exactly the same trail they left it\
	Colonies do not use the same trails every day. There are a set of trails and only a few are used on any given day. Most trails are used only once per 8 days.\
	Foragers do not pick up food that was not found by Patrollers.\
	In beginning of day, patrollers stay close to nest and walk around. As time goes, they move more quickly and zig-zag away from the nest.\
	Foragers can be found on their own trail, or a new food trail, but never on old existing food  trails.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\sa240

\f3 \cf1 \uc0\u8232 
\f0\b \cf3 	Group-level dynamics in harvester ants: young colonies and the role of patrolling\
	
\b0 Wire placed on nest and partially inside mound. 
\f3 The patrollers inspected it, crawled on it, and eventually, since it could not be moved, ignored it. It thus constituted an alien object, only temporarily disturbing.\

\f0\b 	
\b0 Alien ants introduced to nest: 
\f3 The 
\fs22 Novomes- sot 
\fs24 circled around, were chased by 
\fs22 P. barbatus 
\fs24 workers, and were always gone within the hour.\

\f0\b 	\'93
\f3\b0 nest maintenance workers carry sand out of the nest and clear vegetation at the edges of the nest mound; foragers travel directly away from or towards the nest on the foraging trail; patrollers move with a characteristic zig-zag, hesitant gait, inspecting the ground or other ants frequently, or gather at the site of a disturbance and stand with mandibles open; midden workers\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\sa240\qc

\f0\b \cf3 How colony growth affects forager intrusion between neighbouring harvester ant colonies\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\sa240
\cf3 	\'93
\b0 The foraging area of a harvester ant colony is a starshaped region. Foragers travel to and from the nest on foraging trails up to 40m long. Foraging disctances vary, depending in part on food availability. [ant] colonies sometimes establish \'91trunk trails\'92, permanent, cleared tracks in the vegeatation leading from the nest to the foraging area, as well as other habitual trails, across bare soil, which are not apparent when not in use by foragers.\'94\
	\'93Both foraging behavior, and the boundaries of foraging ranges, appear to be more stable in colonies 5 years or older, than in younger ones.\'94\
	Older nests are more likely to avoid interaction with neigbouring colonies.\
	\'93Neighboring colonies actively adjust the partitioning of foraging area \'85 they adjust the direction and length of their foraging trails in response to the foraging behavior of their neighbours\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\sa240\qc
\cf3 	
\b How patrollers set foraging direction in harvester ants\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\sa240
\cf3 	
\b0 \'93Patrollers regulate the direction taken by foragers each day by depositing Dufour\'92s secretions on a sector of the nest mound abot 20cm long. The secretions lead to the beginning of a foraging trail but do not recruit foragers all the way to food sources, which may be up to 20m away.\'94\
	\'93Foragers travel from the nest in streams, or trails, and then fan out to individually search for seeds \'85 Trails exten radiallly from the edges of a large nest mound, which has a diameter of up to 1m. In a foraging trip, which lasts about 20 min, a forager travels along the trail and then, once it finds food, returns directly to the nest along the trail. \'93\
	\'93Since each forager leaves the trail at a differnt point to sarch for seeds, a trail does not lead all foragers to a particular food source but instead forms the base of a fan-shaped region in which ants search for food.\'94\
	\'93Each day the colony chooses from among up to eight distinct foraging trails. If the same direction is used on successive days, then the same individual foragers tend to use that direction.\'94\
	\'93Recruitment by pheromone trails leading all the way to a food source occurs very rarely, except in response to experimental baits that provide an extremely large and concentrated source of food.\'94\
	
\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1
\cf3 	\
	
\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1

\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Justin:\
}