{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;\f2\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
\f6\ftech\fcharset0 Wingdings-Regular;\f7\fnil\fcharset128 MS-Mincho;\f8\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue102;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid8}
{\list\listtemplateid9\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid9}
{\list\listtemplateid10\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid10}
{\list\listtemplateid11\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid11}
{\list\listtemplateid12\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid12}
{\list\listtemplateid13\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid13}
{\list\listtemplateid14\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid14}
{\list\listtemplateid15\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid15}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid9\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid10\listoverridecount0\ls10}{\listoverride\listid11\listoverridecount0\ls11}{\listoverride\listid12\listoverridecount0\ls12}{\listoverride\listid13\listoverridecount0\ls13}{\listoverride\listid14\listoverridecount0\ls14}{\listoverride\listid15\listoverridecount0\ls15}}
{\info
{\keywords cursorLocation=303, fitsPagesWidth=1}}\margl1008\margr1008\margt1008\vieww12240\viewh14820\viewkind1\viewscale102
\deftab720
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\qc

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Breakdown of Topics for Study\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
Katie: Role Changing. Time and Environmental parameters. \
Patrick: Job Stimulation. Initial task allocation proportion.  \
David: Movement of Ants / How foraging trails are set. Quantitative or comparison data. \
Justin: Interaction Threshold. Nest maintenance recruitment.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Log (what we\'92ve found so far):\
Katie:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 \ulnone Time and Environmental Parameters:\
Seasonal Parameters that effect colonies:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri1584\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0                  Seasonal spatial dynamics and causes of nest movement in colonies of the invasive Argentine ant 
\i ( Linepithema humile ):
\i0  Nicole Heller\
The article gives good information on how seasons affect the colony. It also includes some information on food resources in the area and how that also affects the colony as well. The study however was done on the Argentine ant, 
\i Linepithema humile
\i0 . Study was completed in northern California and the environment was characterized as Mediterranean: cool and wet from November to April and hot and dry from May to October. 
\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li768\fi-360\ri1584\ql\qnatural
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'a5	
\f1  \'93Argentine ant nests and inter-nest trails shift in size, abundance, and location, so \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri1584\ql\qnatural
\cf0 that colony networks are spatially contracted in the winter and expanded spring to \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural
\cf0 autumn.\'94  Pg.1\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li768\fi-360\ri1584\ql\qnatural
\ls2\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'a5	
\f1 \'93Nests were located within 2 \'96 4 m of woody plants, in warm sites in the winter and \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri1584\ql\qnatural
\cf0 cool sites in the summer. Both humidity and food availability influenced nest-site choice \'93 \'93the ants \
chose humid nest boxes over nest boxes near food\'94 pg. 1\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li768\fi-360\ri1584\ql\qnatural
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'a5	
\f1 \'93nest movements are driven by changes in microclimate\'94 pg.1\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li768\fi-360\ri1584\ql\qnatural
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \cf2 \'a5	
\f1 \'93Many of the most successful invasive ant species are highly polydomous\'94 pg. 1 
\b This seems fairly important that most of the successful ant species live in multiple nests that create a larger structure
\b0 \
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f3  \'93nests can be dispersed to improve a colony\'92s ability to defend or obtain resources\'94 pg.1\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li768\fi-360\ri1584\ql\qnatural
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'a5	
\f3 \'93polydomous colonies are often fluid,\'85, which may enable colonies to maintain advantageous nutritive, reproductive, or micro-environmental conditions\'94 pg.1\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f3 \'93nests are locally abundant, spatially aggregated, and interconnected by trails\'94 pg.2\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f3 \'93when ant activity was highest, from 7 to 10.30 hours and 15.30 to 20 hours  in March to October, and from 9 to 16 hours in November to February.\'94 Pg.3\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f3 \'93important environmental factors tested: soil temperature and proximity to woody plants.\'94 \'93Woody plants modify soil microclimate and host honeydew excreting insects (that the ants fed on)\'94 pg.3\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f3 \'93Nest surface area in plots varied with season\'85 It was higher in cool, wet months than in hot, dry months\'85 due to seasonal changes in both nest size and nest density\'94 pg. 5\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f3 \'93Nests were more stable in winter than in summer\'94 pg. 6\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f3 \'93Trails were more numerous in hot, dry months than in cool, wet months\'94 pg. 6\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f3 \'93the spring through autumn months, the number of trails increased, as did the number of nests that were connected by trails\'94 pg. 6\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f3 \'93 Soil temperature influenced nest location\'94 pg. 6\
\ls3\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f3 \'93In all seasons, woody plants influenced nest location. Nests were most often found within 2-4m of woody plants\'94 pg. 6\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li768\ri1584\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural

\f1\b \cf0 Resource- Dependent Interactions and the Organization of Desert Ant Communities: Nathan Sanders and Deborah Gordon\
The following article is mainly concerning what occurs when two different ant species come in contact and then compete with each other for resources. I am not sure if this is necessarily important and pertaining to our computer program ( I think that if was included in the program it would be A LOT of extra work). The competition occurs between mainly 
\i Myrmecocystus 
\i0 and 
\i A. cockerelli
\i0  ant species. \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \cf0 \'a5	
\f1 \'93Resources influence consumer physiology, behavior, population growth, interspecific interactions, and community structure\'94 pg. 1\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f1 \'93foraging behavior can depend on the size and distribution of resources\'85 several species choose resources based on food quality\'94 pg.1\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f1 \'93With the threat of competition with neighboring ant species was minimal, protein food resources were preferred to seed resources.\'94 Pg.4\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f1 \'93Studies in several taxa have shown that competitive interactions can alter the resource use of individuals\'94 pg.5 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f1 \'93results suggest that 
\i Myrmecocystus 
\i0 may use some form of chemical interference to displace 
\i A. cockerelli 
\i0 from protein resources but not at seed resources\'94 pg.5 \
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f1 \'93when resource availability changes so does  the structure of the dominance hierarchies\'94 pg.6\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f1 \'93The organization of communities is influenced by resources\'94 pg.6\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 The interactive effects of climate, life history, and interspecific neighbours on mortality in population of seed harvester ants: Nathan Sanders and Deboran Gordon\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-360\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural
\ls5\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\'a5	}\'a5	
\f1 \'93It was found that more red harvester ant colonies die following dry summers than following wet summers.\'94 Pg.1\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f2 {\listtext	\'a5	}\'a5	
\f1 \'93
\i A. Cockerelli 
\i0 ant neighbor species influence red harvester ants colony mortality and the effects of nearest 
\i A. Cockerelli
\i0  neighbors are usually more severe during dry summers when food resources are more scarce\'94 pg.1 \
\ls5\ilvl0
\f2 {\listtext	\'a5	}\'a5	
\f1 \'93Rainfall affects the abundance of many populations. Rainfall is positively correlated with pulses of seed resources in deserts\'94 pg.1\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural
\ls5\ilvl0
\f4\b \cf0 	Dynamics of task switching in harvester ants, Deborah Gordon\
	Harvester ants are engaged in one of four activities outside the nest: foraging, patrolling, nest maintainence, and upkeep for the colony refuse pile. Each task usually has a distinct group of workers and under certain conditions workers would switch and engage in other activities. Switching of ants into one activity would alter the numbers of workers in other activities\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1\b0 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\'93In the summer 
\i P. barbatus 
\i0 colonies are active outside the nest from sunrise until about noon, when temperatures force them back into the nest\'94 pg.1\
{\listtext	\'95	}\'93interactions between worker groups in response to perturbations change as a colony gets older\'85 compared with younger colonies (1-2 years), older ones (at least 5 years old) showed a more consistent response to successive trails of a given perturbation.\'94pg.2\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural
\ls5\ilvl0
\f4 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\'93In older undisturbed colonies, ants marked as foragers continued to forage. Ants marked as nest maintainence continued to do nest maintainence. Only in one older colony was there a task switch where a large proportion of next maintainence workers would switch and do patrolling. Otherwise it remained the same that those ants marked for their specific task remained doing that task.\'94 Pg. 5\
{\listtext	\'95	}\'93In undisturbed younger colonies, task fidelity was only high for foragers. Patrollers would patrol but they also would do foraging. Nest maintainence were more likely to forage than to continue to do nest maintainence. It is likely that a distinct group does nest maintainence but also does foraging as well\'94 pg.5\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural
\ls5\ilvl0
\f1 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\'93In experiments that caused nest maintainence to intensify, in older colonies the increased number of workers were recruited from inside the nest. But workers engaged in other tasks did not tend to switch tasks to do nest maintainence\'94 Pg.6\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
{\listtext	\'95	}\
\pard\pardeftab720\li1080\fi-360\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural

\f4\b \cf0 \ul Role Changing\ulnone \
Midden work Role Changing is below:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200
\cf0 Encounter Rate and Task Allocation in Harvester Ants; Deborah Gordon (1999)\
This study was done on laboratory colonies and was devoted to the study of a single task, midden work.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri1584\sa200
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \cf0 \'a5	
\f4\b \'93Ants engaged in tasks outside the nest meet as they go in and out of the nest entrance. When two ants meet, one ant often touches, with its antennae, the antennae or body of the other\'94 pg. 3\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \'a5	
\f4\b \'93
\b0 in the field, harvest ant colonies maintain a refuse pile, or midden, on their nest mounds\'94 pg.3
\b \
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \'a5	
\f4 \'93The more midden workers an ant encountered while it was away from the midden, the more of its time was spent engaged in midden work\'94 pg. 6\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f4 \'93the proportion of time ants spent performing midden work was significantly correlated with the proportion of encounters off the midden with midden workers\'94 pg.6\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f4 \'93Ants engaged in tasks other than midden work who switched to perform midden work had met midden workers at a higher rate than ants who did not switch\'94 pg.6\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f4 \'93Ants engaged in some other task were more likely to begin to do midden work when their rate of encounter with midden workers was high\'94 pg.7\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f4 \'93To distinguish the task of the ants it meets, an ant may use the odor of objects carried by another ant, such as dead ants or refuse\'94 pg.7\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f4 \'93An ant can detect in the course of a brief antennal contact whether another ant is a nestmate etc.\'94 pg.7\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f4\b \'93It was found in this study that ants away from the midden, not engaged in midden work, began to perform midden work when they met many other ants carrying refuse\'94 pg. 8\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \'a5	
\f4 \'93most contacts between focal ants and midden workers off the midden did not occur near the midden but occurred with ants walking around in the area outside the nest\'94 pg.8
\b \
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \'a5	
\f4\b \'93Environmental cues provide negative feedback for other tasks of harvester ants. The rate at which successful foragers return to the nest is probably linked to food availability. When this rate declines, foragers are more likely to remain inactive inside the nest. Similarly, negative feedback from the environment may curtail midden work. The amount of midden work is probably linked to the amount of midden material present.\'94pg.8\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \'a5	
\f4 \'93 In the field, dead ants are often taken far from the nest where they are removed by other scavenging species\'94 pg.8\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f4 \'93Majority of midden work is the collection, sorting, and rearrangement of pebbles and seed husks\'94pg.8\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f4 \'93Midden workers of the red harvester ant may help prevent intrusion on the nest mound by other ant species by transferring some sent mark to the midden material (they use the midden as a defense on top of the nest mound)\'94 pg.8\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f4 \'93Some possibilities of environmental cues for negative feedback loops for midden work include: insufficient midden material to occupy ants, or competing cues that elicit other tasks\'94 pg.8\
\ls6\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f4 \'93When number of dead ants were relatively low, few ants performed midden work\'94 pg.8\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri1584\sa200
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \
Cuticular Hydrocarbons inform task decisions, Nature Publishing Group: Michael J. Greene, Deborah Gordon\
This is about how ants show their cuticular hydrocarbons to each other in order to determine which tasks they must perform themselves. They accomplish by artificially chemically test ants focusing on two task groups the foragers and the patrollers. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 \'93 Communication occurs mostly by chemical and tactile means, with cuticular hydrocarbons often acting as recognition cues.\'94 Pg. 1\
\'93A harvester ant\'92s task decision depends on its interaction by antennal contact with ants in the nest entrance\'94 pg.1 \
\'93 Ants in different task groups differ in their cuticular hydrocarbon profiles\'94 pg. 1\
\'93Foragers have higher ratios of n-alkanes to n-alkenes and branched alkanes in their cuticular hydrocarbon profiles than that of ants inside the nest, foragers spend most of their time outside the nest in warmer, drier conditions.\'94 Pg. 1\
In and experiment where beads covered with various solvents including: patroller cuticular lipids, patroller hydrocarbons, nest-maintainene hydrocarbons, or plain solvent it was found:\
\'93 Task-specific cuticular hydrocarbons from patrollers were sufficient enough to rescue foraging activity\'94 pg. 1\
\'93The following is required in order to rescue foraging activity: a one-ant equivalent concentration of hydrocarbon extract, location just inside the nest entrance, sequential presentation, and the time of day at which the colony is ready to begin foraging.\'94 Pg.1\
\'93A brief encounter with a nestmate influences an ant\'92s task decision because the encounter identifies the task of the other worker, cued by subtle features of other ants\'92 hydrocarbon profiles.\'94pg.1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 Oxford surveys in Evolutionary Biology, Volume 6, 1989,  Deborah M. Gordon\uc0\u8232 Looks at the physical caste system of social insects. This is not specific to red harvester ants thus probably less useful than other literature.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 \'93In species with temporal castes, such as honey bees and most ant species, task is age dependent\'94 pg.1\
\'93When colony conditions change, individuals switch tasks\'94 pg.2\
\'93Different situations that can cause task switching among social insects: Disturbances (that obstruct the colony activities such as temperature changes, newly available food sources, etc.), changes in the number of workers(when workers of one task die then other workers of a different task must fill in for those workers, etc.), changes in the age of the colony\'94 pg.2\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 Dynamics of task switching in harvester ants, Deborah Gordon\
Harvester ants are engaged in one of four activities outside the nest: foraging, patrolling, nest maintainence, and upkeep for the colony refuse pile. Each task usually has a distinct group of workers and under certain conditions workers would switch and engage in other activities. Switching of ants into one activity would alter the numbers of workers in other activities\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri1584\sa200\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 \'93A colony\'92s behavior is determined by two characteristics of each behavior subcaste: how many workers it contains and how efficient its workers are at doing their task.\'94 Pg.1\
\'93A colony\'92s response to ecological conditions depend on dynamics at two interrelated levels: first at the individual level (in response to short term emergencies or long term changes) and second at the colony level (allows for changes in distribution of workers for certain tasks, etc.)\'94 pg.1\
\'93Exterior workers rarely mix with interior workers\'94 pg.2\
[Only about 25% of a harvester ant colony works outside the nest however it is believed with the red harvester ant species there is a worker group that is on reserve in order to increase the number of workers working outside the nest on a particular task] pg.2\
\'93In most experiments, if ants switched tasks, ants marked for one of the four activities tended to switch into only one other activity\'94 pg. 5\
\'93In older undisturbed colonies, ants marked as foragers continued to forage. Ants marked as nest maintainence continued to do nest maintainence. Only in one older colony was there a task switch where a large proportion of next maintainence workers would switch and do patrolling. Otherwise it remained the same that those ants marked for their specific task remained doing that task.\'94 Pg. 5\
\'93In undisturbed younger colonies, task fidelity was only high for foragers. Patrollers would patrol but they also would do foraging. Nest maintainence were more likely to forage than to continue to do nest maintainence. It is likely that a distinct group does nest maintainence but also does foraging as well\'94 pg.5\
\'93when numbers foraging were increased high proportions of ants that were marked when engaged in patrolling, nest maintianence or midden work, all switched tasks to participate in the collection of a new, abundant food source\'94 pg.7\
\'93When patrolling was intensified, high proportions of ants that were marked when engaged in nest maintainence switched tasks to patrol. Foragers did not switch tasks. Some marked midden workers did switch. Increased numbers patrolling in response to disturbances may include both extra patrollers that were previously inactive and former nest maintaince workers that have switched now to patrolling\'94 pg.7\
\'93In the case of intensified nest maintainence, extras were apparently recruited from a previously inactive pool\'94 pg.7\
\'93other perturbations that intensifies foraging and patrolling, marked ants switched tasks\'94 pg.7 \
\'93When ants were recruited, presumably from all other three tasks in order to forage, they would either then continue to forage or to patrol.\'94 Pg.7\
\'93Once ants were recruited into patrolling, both from nest maintaince and also from an inactive pool of patrollers from inside the nest, they tended to continue to patrol\'94 pg.7\
\'93Perturbations in which nest maintainence was intensified suggested that extra nest maintainence workers were recruited from previously inactive ants from inside the nest\'94 pg.7\
\'93Foragers showed very strong task fidelity. In response to all perturbations ants marked to forage usually continued to forage and ants recruited from other tasks in order to forage usually would then continue to forage.\'94 Pg.7 \
\'93 In contrast, nest maintainence had a very weak task fidelity. In response to perturbations causing increases in patrolling or foraging, nest maintainence workers often switched to one of these tasks. For an increase in the number of nest maintainence workers, workers were recruited from within the nest, but later these workers would often end up doing some other task.\'94 pg.7\
\'93it seems that ants are drawn into foraging and away from nest maintainence. Thus nest maintainence workers seem to be a reserve pool for foragers.\'94 Pg.8\
\'93If 
\i P. barbatus 
\i0 follows the sequence of age-dependent changes of task that is usual in ants, nest maintainence workers may be the youngest group of exterior workers, in transition from interior to exterior tasks.\'94 Pg.8\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \ul Patrick:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \'93Forager activation and food availability in Harverster Ants\'94 -- Gordon\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\ls7\ilvl0
\f5 \cf0 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 \'93Forager departure rates were not affected by the return of unsuccessful foragers\'94 \'96Abstract, more in computer model analysis later in paper.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\ls7\ilvl0
\f5 \cf0 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 The ant we\'92re studying \'93forages for dispersed and partially buried seeds, which are distributed mostly at random by wind and flooding\'94 \'96 p. 816, top left.\
\ls7\ilvl0
\f5 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 \'93Once a forager leaves the nest, it travels in a stream of foragers (a \'91foraging trail\'92) and then stops to search the ground for food. As soon as it has picked up a seed or other bit of food, it goes directly back to the foraging trail and returns to the nest.\'94 P. 816, left middle\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\ls8\ilvl0
\f5 \cf0 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 \'93The streams of foragers can be very broad, spanning more than a metre, and often occupy a fanshaped region of many square metres\'94 p. 816, middle left\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\ls9\ilvl0
\f5 \cf0 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 \'93In response to experimental baits, patrollers (but not foragers; \cf3 Gordon 1984\cf0 ) clearly lay a pheromone trail and recruit foragers to an abundant food source (e.g. \cf3 Gordon 1991\cf0 ); however, such behavior is not normally observed except on rare occasions when the ants manage to surround an insect not claimed by a competing ant species. Throughout a foraging season, a colony uses the same habitual set of foraging directions, sometimes cleared of vegetation (\cf3 Gordon 1991\cf0 ).\'94 P. 816, bottom left\
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\ls10\ilvl0
\f5 \cf0 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 \'93Most foragers do not return to the nest until they have found food; about 90% of returning foragers are successful\'94 p. 816, right\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\ls11\ilvl0
\f5 \cf0 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 \'93In another experiment, all returning foragers were removed. After about an hour, foraging stopped completely\'94 p. 816, right\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\ls12\ilvl0
\f5 \cf0 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 \'93Foragers, like patrollers, have task-specific cuticular hydrocarbon profiles (\cf3 Wagner et al. 2001\cf0 ), and it is likely that contact with hydrocarbons of returning foragers stimulates inactive foragers to leave the nest.\'94 P. 816, bottom right\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa200\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\ls13\ilvl0
\f5 \cf0 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\
 \'93Behavioral flexibility and the foraging ecology of seed-eating Ants\'94  -- Gordon\
*** David  check out this article ***\
***Actually\'85 everyone, check out this article!!!***\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li435\fi-360\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\ls14\ilvl0
\f5 \cf0 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 \'93Each day that a colony foragers, it chooses few routes out of a larger set of available ones. This decision is made each day by the patrollers, a distinct group of workers, before the foragers emerge from the nest.\'94 \'96Abstract, more on pp.401-401\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f5 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 Foraging trails extend 10-40 m from the nest. P.381, top.\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f5 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 Info on colony longevity  useful for future work. P. 381, bottom.\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f5 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 Number of foragers is 0 \'96 200 on any given day (peak foraging time is 8:00-9:00 AM, and many colonies have zero foragers at this time. Foraging intensity is highly variant).  \'96 P. 386, top of page.\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f5 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 Amazing graph of patroller numbers and times at which they\'92re active \'96 p.390\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f5 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 Good chart of total numbers over the course of a day. Need clarifying info from Gordon to get temporal data on these numbers and see if they\'92re unique or include repeat counts. P. 389\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f5 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 Great decription of how patrollers patrol. Bottom-middle - p. 388\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f5 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 Precise data on forager trail fidelity. Table on p. 394\
\ls14\ilvl0
\f5 \'95	\uc0\u957 
\f6 	
\f0 \'93most returning foragers are successful\'94 \'96 p. 402, middle.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\li435\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \ul David:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone Movement of Ants, How Foraging Trails Are Set\
	Behavioral Flexibility and the Foraging Ecology of Seed-Eating Ants\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 	Ants come back to nest via exactly the same trail they left it\
	Colonies do not use the same trails every day. There are a set of trails and only a few are used on any given day. Most trails are used only once per 8 days.\
	Foragers do not pick up food that was not found by Patrollers.\
	In beginning of day, patrollers stay close to nest and walk around. As time goes, they move more quickly and zig-zag away from the nest.\
	Foragers can be found on their own trail, or a new food trail, but never on old existing food  trails.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa240\ql\qnatural

\f7 \cf1 \uc0\u8232 
\f0\b \cf0 	Group-level dynamics in harvester ants: young colonies and the role of patrolling\
	
\b0 Wire placed on nest and partially inside mound. 
\f8 The patrollers inspected it, crawled on it, and eventually, since it could not be moved, ignored it. It thus constituted an alien object, only temporarily disturbing.\

\f0\b 	
\b0 Alien ants introduced to nest: 
\f8 The 
\fs22 Novomes- sot 
\fs24 circled around, were chased by 
\fs22 P. barbatus 
\fs24 workers, and were always gone within the hour.\

\f0\b 	\'93
\f8\b0 nest maintenance workers carry sand out of the nest and clear vegetation at the edges of the nest mound; foragers travel directly away from or towards the nest on the foraging trail; patrollers move with a characteristic zig-zag, hesitant gait, inspecting the ground or other ants frequently, or gather at the site of a disturbance and stand with mandibles open; midden workers\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa240\qc

\f0\b \cf0 How colony growth affects forager intrusion between neighbouring harvester ant colonies\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 	\'93
\b0 The foraging area of a harvester ant colony is a starshaped region. Foragers travel to and from the nest on foraging trails up to 40m long. Foraging disctances vary, depending in part on food availability. [ant] colonies sometimes establish \'91trunk trails\'92, permanent, cleared tracks in the vegeatation leading from the nest to the foraging area, as well as other habitual trails, across bare soil, which are not apparent when not in use by foragers.\'94\
	\'93Both foraging behavior, and the boundaries of foraging ranges, appear to be more stable in colonies 5 years or older, than in younger ones.\'94\
	Older nests are more likely to avoid interaction with neigbouring colonies.\
	\'93Neighboring colonies actively adjust the partitioning of foraging area \'85 they adjust the direction and length of their foraging trails in response to the foraging behavior of their neighbours\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa240\qc
\cf0 	
\b How patrollers set foraging direction in harvester ants\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 	
\b0 \'93Patrollers regulate the direction taken by foragers each day by depositing Dufour\'92s secretions on a sector of the nest mound abot 20cm long. The secretions lead to the beginning of a foraging trail but do not recruit foragers all the way to food sources, which may be up to 20m away.\'94\
	\'93Foragers travel from the nest in streams, or trails, and then fan out to individually search for seeds \'85 Trails exten radiallly from the edges of a large nest mound, which has a diameter of up to 1m. In a foraging trip, which lasts about 20 min, a forager travels along the trail and then, once it finds food, returns directly to the nest along the trail. \'93\
	\'93Since each forager leaves the trail at a differnt point to sarch for seeds, a trail does not lead all foragers to a particular food source but instead forms the base of a fan-shaped region in which ants search for food.\'94\
	\'93Each day the colony chooses from among up to eight distinct foraging trails. If the same direction is used on successive days, then the same individual foragers tend to use that direction.\'94\
	\'93Recruitment by pheromone trails leading all the way to a food source occurs very rarely, except in response to experimental baits that provide an extremely large and concentrated source of food.\'94\
	\'93The colony\'92s daily choice of foraging direction depends on a cue placed on the ground by patrollers before foragers emerge from the nest\'94.\
	\'93Foragers were likely to use the same trail they used the previous day when patrollers were prevented from marking the nest mound before the start of foraging\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa240\qc

\b \cf0 How site fidelity leads to individual differences in the foraging activities of harvester ants\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\sa240\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 	\'93Individual foragers differ in the duration and number of foraging trips. Most foragers make a few long trips in a day, whereas a few foragers make many short trips. When the foragers that make many, shorter trips were removed, new foragers stepped in the next day to become the most active foragers.\'94\
	\'93Observations of marked individuals showed that a forager returns to the same place, within about .5m, on successive trips.\'94\
	\'93Wherever a forager finds a food item on its first trip of the day is the site to which it will return on the rest of its trips that day\'94\
	\'93
\f8 The result that the duration of a foraging trip depends mostly on how long the forager has to search means that the rate at which foragers bring back food to the nest is tightly linked to the availability of food that day. Less food means a lon- ger search and a delay in the forager\'92s return. This is crucial in the regulation of foraging. The number of ants that are out foraging at any time is regulated by interactions between for- agers. Inactive foragers are stimulated to leave the nest to for- age by the return of successful foragers bringing in food (Schafer et al. 2006). The rate of forager return, which depends on search time and on food availability, translates within minutes to a change in the rate at which more foragers go out (Gordon et al. 2008).\'94\

\f0\b \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 	\
	
\b0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \ul Justin: 
\b0 \ulnone Interaction Threshold. Nest maintenance recruitment.
\b \ul \
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\ri0\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \ulnone Interaction rate informs harvester ant task\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\ql\qnatural
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2\b0 \cf0 \'a5	
\f0 A harvester ant worker is more likely to change tasks to do midden work when its rate of encounter with midden workers is high (p1c2p1) (citing Gordon and Mehdiabadi 1999).
\f8\fs18 \
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2\fs24 \'a5	
\f0 A colony is not active every day (p1c2p2) (citing Gordon 1991)
\f8\fs18 \
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2\fs24 \'a5	
\f0 The emergence of foragers on a particular day is triggered by the return of a distinct group of ants that emerge early in the morning before the foragers are active alled the patrollers. (p1c2p2) (Gordon 1989, 2002)
\f8\fs18 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\ql\qnatural
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 \'a5	
\f8 A harvester ants cuticular hydrocarbon profile depends on its task because as an ant moves from work inside the nest to long foraging trips outside the nest exposure to the warm dry conditions outside causes an increase in the abundance of n-alkanes on its cuticle (wagner et al. 2001)\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 Patrollers emerge from the nest at about sunrise. A patroller shows characteristic behavior: it walks around the nest mound, frequently stopping to inspect the ground with its antennae, and often tucks its abdomen under its thorax (Gordon 1987). Foragers travel directly out on in a stream of foragers, which may extend 10\'9615 m from the nest (Gordon 1995). (p2c1p2\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 In the experiment: Ten patroller beads were added to the nest at 4 different rates, each presented to each of 5 colonies on different days: 1) 1 bead per 3 min, 2) 1 bead per 45 s, 3) 1 bead per 10 s, and 4) 1 bead every 1 s.\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 A steep increase in patroller return rate was observed approximately 30 min before foragers emerged\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 A rate of 1 bead every 10 s elicited the greatest foraging response and elicited foraging from 4 out of 5 colonies.\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 Longer intervals of 45 s or 3 min elicited low levels of foraging. The shorter interval, less than 1 s between introductions, elicited foraging, but to a significantly lesser extent than the interval of 1 bead every 10 s (LSD, 
\f3 P . 
\f8 0.05).\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 In undisturbed colonies, foragers emerged from the nest after patrollers had achieved a mean (
\f3 6
\f8 standard deviation) patroller return rate of 4.09 
\f3 6 
\f8 2.65 returning patrollers per min. This rate of return corresponds to a mean rate of 1 patroller returning every 14.6 s.\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 When the rate of patroller return was artificially boosted by adding beads coated with patroller hydrocarbons, foraging began sooner than when control beads were added to nests. Colonies receiving patroller hydrocarbons foraged 17.9 
\f3 +-
\f8 19.7 min sooner than colonies receiving blank control beads (paired-samples 
\f3 t
\f8 -test, 
\f3 P , 
\f8 0.01; 
\f3 n \'bc 
\f8 12).\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 It appears that a forager decides to leave the nest on its first foraging trip of the day when it interact with patrollers at a rate of about 1 per 10s.\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 Our results suggest that individual ants have a threshold response to multiple events\
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 When encounters occur rapidly enough, so that one encounter occurs before the effect of the previous one has fully decayed, each successive encounter increases the probability of foraging. Eventually, if there are enough encounters per unit time, the ant exceeds some activation threshold and goes out to forage (Page et al. 1998; Gautraisw et al. 2002). \
\ls15\ilvl0
\f2 \'a5	
\f8 A very high rate of encounter with patrollers, corresponding to our experimental rate of 1 bead per second, occurs only in a dangerous situation when all the patrollers return almost simultaneously, and it is not appropriate for foragers to emerge. We have observed alarmed patrollers that rushed back into the nest. In response to high winds or predation, mainly by horned lizards (genus 
\f3 Phrynosoma
\f8 ), alarmed patrollers may return very quickly to the nest (Gordon 2002).\
}